All right, well, let's get started.
So my name is Mike Stern.
I am a user experience
evangelist with Apple.
And it's my pleasure to be
with you today to talk about
designing your app for iOS 7.
So what I do year-round is I work
with developers such as yourself on
how to design great apps for iOS.
And as you can imagine,
since this summer at
WWDC when we announced iOS 7,
I've spent a lot of time working
with developers specifically on the
process of redesigning their existing
apps or designing new apps for iOS 7.
And through that experience,
I've been able to see really up close and
get a lot of hands-on experience of where
people have difficulties or questions and
what are the opportunities of success for
designing for this new version of iOS.
And so I wanted to take that experience,
draw from that experience,
and share with you some observations
that I've had of the kind of real-world
situations that people have gone through
as they've gone through this process.
And hopefully I'll be able to anticipate
some of the questions that you may have.
So when designing for iOS 7,
I think the best place to get started
is to consider some of the principles
that influenced the redesign of iOS.
Now, there are many different principles,
but the top three,
the most important three,
are these-- clarity,
Deference and Depth.
And if you're interested,
I gave a talk at WWDC where we
introduced some of these principles
when we first talked about iOS 7.
And I go into a little
bit greater detail there.
But for the purpose of today,
I just want to recap what these mean.
So clarity is a really simple concept.
It's just about being clear.
Now, if you think about UI design,
at its essence, what UI design is is a
form of communication.
It's your app communicating with
the people who use it and the
people communicating with your app.
And the best form of communication,
the most clear form of communication,
is when things are really
easy to understand,
when information is presented
as clearly as possible,
when the functions of your app are
obvious and intuitive and easy to use,
easy to grasp.
So for example, here's weather.
The most important piece of
information in this app is what
the current weather conditions are.
And the design of the interface
is almost solely devoted to
presenting that singularly
important piece of information.
There's no mistaking what the
current weather conditions are.
There's other information presented here,
too, and it's also very
straightforward and easy to grasp.
And that's the bar.
Your app should make information
and functions as easy to
understand and as easy to grasp.
How people interact with
your app when they launch it.
At the very first moment,
the app should tell them
what this interface,
what this app is capable of doing,
and how they do it.
Next up is deference.
And I think this is kind of a novel
concept when it comes to design,
somewhat of an unusual
and unexpected one.
But it's a really critical one.
So to define deference,
it's basically about having the
best possible content consumption
experience that you can possibly
provide for the people who use your app.
It's about taking content and
putting it at the front and center
of the experience that they're
having with your app's interface.
So for example, this is mail.
In mail,
the content is the email message.
And within that, there's text and photos.
So being deferential in this
situation involves making
sure that text was legible.
So the whole text size scaling
feature was in large part
driven by that singular goal.
So if you have a hard time
reading text at a small font size,
you can adjust it to make it
more legible for yourself.
Photos are now edge to edge.
So there's a larger image,
meaning you can see more detail
within each photo that you look at.
And the navigation itself was designed
in such a way that it's visually subdued.
So it's not competing for your
attention with the content,
with the email message.
It's sort of the navigation bar,
the toolbar,
kind of blend into the message,
making the message seem as
large as it can possibly seem.
And depth is about creating a vibrant
and lifelike experience within apps
and on the platform as a whole.
It's also about using separate
informational and functional
layers to help people stay oriented
within their current context.
Now these three principles,
these are really important,
timeless and universal principles.
And they're critical when you're
designing something to have
objectives and principles like this.
To have principles that provide
an objective criteria for you to
make really great design decisions.
The contrary of that,
the opposite of that,
is to have subjective
design making decisions.
So if you were designing
in a subjective way,
you might ask yourself,
how can I make this look cool?
Or what can I do that's new and fresh?
And it may yield some
interesting results.
But it's likely to yield results that are
trendy and won't stand the test of time.
So when thinking about principles
and talking about principles,
there's a risk of sounding
somewhat academic or you're
over-intellectualizing things.
And I think it's actually not that true.
The best way to approach designing
around these principles is just
to ask the right questions.
So I've prepared some examples for
each of these three principles.
And there's more questions
that you can ask,
many more, ones that are specific to the
type of app that you're designing.
These are good ones to start with.
So for clarity,
am I using words that people understand?
Do they have the vocabulary to understand
the text that's in the interface?
Am I speaking clearly?
Am I using grammatically
correct phrasing?
Can people tell what my app
does just by looking at it?
That's a pretty high bar to set,
but it's an important one to
keep your eyes on and try to
work towards that ultimate goal.
And can people use my app
with little or no instruction?
Now,
sometimes some instruction is necessary,
especially with a very
complicated application.
But your ultimate goal should be to make
the app so intuitive to use that people
can just guess how to interact with it.
For deference, is the interface calling
attention to itself?
Is it trying to speak too loudly,
and therefore, it's kind of distracting?
Does the interface compete with content?
Again, is it so visually noisy that
it's overwhelming your ability
to accurately see visual
information within the content,
whether that's photos or text?
And can content be larger and more
central to the app experience?
Again, these are really basic questions,
but they're good ones to ask.
And for depth,
do people get lost or confused in my app?
You have to watch people
using your app and,
you know,
be really honest about where they're
stumbling and then figure out,
is the ultimate problem the app
interface and the way it's been designed?
Can you help address that?
Next up,
and I think this is really critical,
how do my apps spatially
relate to one another?
It's really important when you design
an interface to have a clear spatial
model of all aspects of your application.
If you don't have that spatial
model of how things are arranged,
when people are using your app,
they won't have a spatial model
of how things are arranged.
Meaning,
they don't know where they can go.
They don't know where they are.
And as a consequence,
they're going to feel lost and confused,
like the first question.
And finally, how can animation provide
a sense of continuity?
Now,
animation is really important for iOS 7.
We've used it and we've leveraged it
to a greater extent than ever before.
And I'm going to go into a lot more
detail about some of the ins and
outs of animation a little bit later.
But I want you to be thinking about
that because animation is really
important for providing continuity.
So these questions, they're actually very
basic and simple questions.
But the answers that you come up with to
these questions might be very profound.
They might take you on a
totally different path than
the one you had been on before.
So it's important to ask these.
It's important to ask
these at the beginning,
when you set out to
begin designing an app.
But it's just as important to continue
to ask yourself these questions as you're
designing and as you're developing.
That will help you make sure that you're
staying on course and make sure that
you're continuing to make really good,
objective, rational decisions.
Okay, so that's the principles.
I want you to keep thinking about
some of those principles as we go
through the rest of the presentation,
because hopefully it'll help
provide that framework for some
of the things that I'll discuss.
So in software interface design,
we talk about the look
and feel all the time,
more than just software interface design,
all aspects of design.
And that's a really good way
for talking about iOS 7 as well.
So I want to start with the look.
Specifically,
I want to talk about six different
things related to the look of iOS 7,
starting with app icons.
Now, the reason why I want to start
here is because no matter what
type of application you make,
you're going to have to redesign
your existing app icon for iOS 7,
presuming that you have one.
There's two reasons for this.
The first one is that
the size has changed.
That's pretty basic.
The app icons are now
a little bit bigger,
and you don't want to just
stretch existing artwork to fit
because it won't quite look right.
It's not high enough resolution.
The next one, and the more important one,
is that the mask shape
for app icons has changed.
So the contours of those
corners are now a bit different.
And that can be a problem for some icons.
You see a lot of app icons
that do something like this.
They have a faux 3D appearance.
It's like a three-dimensional tile
which has been tilted back slightly.
Or they have inner highlights or borders,
frames that trace the
contour of the mask shape.
And if you've done something
like this with your app icons,
obviously it's not really going to
look right with the new mask shape.
Those corners are going to get cut off.
The faux 3D effect isn't
going to be very convincing.
Now, of course,
you can just read and draw this
stuff to make sure that it's
based around the new mask shape.
But I think this is a good moment to ask
whether these elements are necessary.
Many successful app icons don't
have those visual adornments.
These six icons,
these are from a larger set of
icons that I had shown at the
conference earlier this year.
And I was doing a presentation
called Best Practices in UI Design.
And actually,
these icons were made before I was seven,
before it was public.
And I held these up as exemplars of
icon design for a couple of reasons,
because they do a couple
of things really well.
The first is that they
focus on a limited palette.
There's not too many colors
in each one of these icons.
Some of them really
just have one key color.
Next,
the colors that they choose are vibrant.
They stand out.
They have life to them, right?
And the third is that they
focus on a very simple shape.
And as a result of those attributes,
they reduce extremely well.
Or looked at another way,
you can recognize them
from a very great distance.
And that's important.
Those characteristics are
also really great because it's
easy for people to memorize,
to remember what these look like.
So these are great icons.
And none of them have a faux 3D effect.
None of them have an inner
glow or specular highlight
or frame around the edge.
Okay.
Speaking of icons, many app UIs,
probably most, I'd venture to guess,
have icons in their interface,
either as buttons or as status
or some other type of label.
So chances are your app is
going to have some icons.
And in iOS 7,
all of the icons for all of the
apps that we ship were redesigned.
And they're redesigned
to match each other.
And they're redesigned to match the
overall design vernacular for iOS 7.
And by doing that,
it creates great degree of
consistency for the platform.
The platform experience is much more
internally consistent and cohesive.
And the new icon style was designed
in large part... because these are the
clearest icons that we could produce.
Again, that principle of clarity affected
everything that was done for iOS 7.
These icons are crisp, they're precise,
they're unadorned,
icons are drawn using a minimum number
of visual details to effectively describe
the object that's being referenced.
And they're created using
simple geometric forms
like rectangles or squares,
line segments,
I'm going to show you how to create a
new app that's going to be able to bring
you to the next level of your life.
I'm going to show you how to create a
new app that's going to be able to bring
you to the next level of your life.
And graphical features,
like the lines for the
voicemail icon here,
are even one-point strokes.
and Selection is represented
consistently by their thickening
outlines to be two-point strokes,
or filling in shapes,
whatever is most appropriate
for an individual icon.
And you can mix and match
these things within one app.
as with iTunes U.
They demonstrate both of
these forms of selection.
On the left,
featured and charts get filled
in when they're selected,
and on the right,
browse and search just have thicker
outlines when they are selected.
Okay, so now I've talked a little
bit about the characteristics
of the new icon set for iOS 7,
but what does it actually take to
make icons that match this style?
So as a designer, I wanted to understand
that a bit better myself.
And there's really no better way of
learning how to match a particular
design style than by doing it,
than by practicing it.
So that's exactly what I did.
So this is the old design that we had
for the WWDC app that we released just
before the conference this summer.
And so I took this and
I redesigned it for iOS 7.
And I want to walk you through the
process that I went through for
redesigning each of the various
icons that you see in this interface.
I'm going to start with the day
switcher controls there at the top.
These let you go through the various
days of the schedule during the week.
Now, if my approach had just been
to take the old iOS 6 icon and
drop it into the iOS 7 app UI,
it wouldn't look right.
It wouldn't look really good.
The old icon was designed to make
it look inset into the surface,
or recessed into the surface.
And that's not how icons look in iOS 7,
or how we have designed
them for ourselves,
at least.
They don't look inset.
They don't look like they're raised above
the surface and casting a shadow onto it.
They look as though they've been
printed directly onto the surface.
So the first step was just to
remove those visual effects
that made it look inset.
But that's not quite enough, right?
We also tint icons and tint
buttons with a key color,
which helps people understand that
they are interactive or tappable.
And I'll talk more about
tint colors in a second.
The next step was to look at the shape.
Now, this triangle here,
this is filled in.
And that's an issue,
because as I just talked about earlier,
we reserve filling in icons
to help show selection.
But in this situation,
this control doesn't
actually get selected.
So it's inappropriate.
We don't want to confuse
people by filling this in.
And I needed to pick a new shape.
And in this situation,
it was actually kind of easy
because there's a lot of precedent.
We have back buttons.
We have back and forward buttons
from Safari's browser history.
And those are conceptually
very similar to the controls
that I'm redesigning here.
So I just created an image that was
based on a chevron and was scaled
to be the correct size for the
situation that we're using it in.
And that was basically it.
It's pretty easy.
It's pretty straightforward.
This is a different icon.
This is the repeat badge,
which helps you know that an event
is repeating in the schedule.
And you can see some of the same
characteristics of the previous icon.
We have the triangular
shape for the arrowheads.
But we can see here that we have kind
of an outline which is too thick.
So some of the changes that went in
here are similar to what we had before.
Changed the triangular shape to
a chevron and thinned out the
lines from the arrow's tail.
Next up are color labels,
those little color swatches that
have the triangular shape on the
left or the big circle on the right.
And they were two different icons,
actually, because the circles didn't work
well on the left and the triangles
didn't work very well on the right.
And this one was really
kind of just a cheat.
I just looked at Calendar,
which has color labels for its icons.
I dropped them into the new design,
and I found that they
actually worked really well.
In fact, the same circle of color worked
very well in both situations
because it's much smaller,
so it's more repurposable.
And these icons, I'll just call out,
these are 15-point, I believe, icons,
very small circles of color,
but they're just large enough
to do what they need to do,
which is to show you that swatch,
that sample of color.
No larger, no smaller.
Okay, now last up, and most importantly,
are the tab bar icons.
Tab bar icons are typically
the largest and most prominent
icons in any app's interface.
And they're persistent
because it's a tab bar.
It'll stay visible as you
navigate throughout the app.
So it's really important that your
tab bar icons are designed with
great care and attention to detail.
So let's walk through these four icons.
Now the first two, these were, again,
really easy.
The process here was to just look for
similar icons in other existing apps
that we've shipped and just take them,
just reuse them, right?
So maps and videos,
it was easy to find analogs for
those two sections of the app
and to just use those icons.
And that's perfectly fine to do, right?
Now, next up came Events.
That one was a bit trickier,
a bit more involved.
And so let's dive into that.
So that's the old icon.
And as you can see here,
there's some problems with this.
The outline is too thick,
and it's just not that one
point thickness line weight.
And the squares represent days.
They're also pretty chunky.
They're pretty heavy
and don't feel light.
They don't feel correct for
the design language of iOS 7.
The next issue is that the header,
it's so large.
As I talked about before,
when we're showing selection,
we want to make sure that there's
a great contrast and fill things
in or make things thicker.
But that header is so thick that it's
hard to make this even more filled in.
And finally, those two rings at the top,
which represent the metal rings that
hold the months of a calendar together,
the individual pages of
the calendar together,
I wasn't sure if they're
totally necessary.
And this is just a general bit of advice.
Every time you're designing icons,
you should ask yourself,
is every individual element that's
in the artwork absolutely necessary
for conveying the image that I'm
trying to communicate to people?
And if it's not,
if it's not carrying its weight,
if it's not totally necessary,
then it should just be removed
because it's one more bit of visual
noise that people have to process.
So here's the new icon.
As you can see,
I removed those rings at the top.
I didn't think that they
were actually necessary.
The header was thinned down,
so there's much more negative space.
There's much more white
space in this icon,
so it's easy to imagine how
it's going to be filled in and
more strongly show selection.
And the outlines and the dots were
all made to be quite a bit thinner.
And finally,
this is the icon that represents
the news section of the app.
And as you can see here,
it has some of those same downsides,
the same problems.
So the icon is almost 100% filled in,
so it would be very difficult
to have a version of this which
is heavier to show selection.
And of course,
I could just approach redesigning
this icon by outlining
that speak bubble shape,
but that would look kind of fussy.
It wouldn't look really right.
And also, it's not designed based
on geometric primitives.
These are sort of freehand
Bezier paths that are used to
design every bit of this icon.
It's very non-geometric.
[ Transcript missing ]
The reason why I did that,
and the thing I want to
impart with you today,
is that you should think
about the symbology.
Let me jump back here for a second.
Think about the symbology of
the icon that you're using to
represent different concepts.
If we look at this individual icon here,
we see that it has an exclamation mark.
So what does that mean?
It means urgency.
I want to get your attention.
And there's a speak bubble,
which translates to this is a message.
So if you string it together,
I have an urgent message.
And the section that it's
representing is called news.
So yes, conceptually, they kind of match,
but it's not a perfect fit.
So if we go back forward again.
You can see that ultimately there's
a better icon that has a more direct
semantic correlation to the concepts that
we're trying to communicate to people.
Newspaper connects with news.
Okay, and then the other attributes.
Because it's a newspaper,
it actually has a lot of, luckily,
vertical and horizontal shapes,
a lot of white space inside the icon,
so it'll be easy to show
selection when you get around
to designing that version of it.
So these changes to the icons,
they're actually all pretty subtle.
They're not big changes.
It's not really rocket science here.
But collectively,
all of these individual changes
has resulted in icons which
will now allow the WWDC app to
family much better with iOS 7,
to feel much more at home on iOS 7.
All right.
Enough about icons.
So let's talk about tint colors.
Tim Cutler is really important in iOS 7.
I can't stress this enough.
The reason why they're important,
beyond just allowing you to
give a theme or a particular
feel to your apps interface,
is they help tell people
what elements are tappable.
They help indicate interactivity.
But it's really easy to overuse color.
Lots of apps have lots of
interactive elements at all times.
And if all of those had a tint color,
there would be way too much color.
No matter what the color is,
it would be totally overwhelming.
So to avoid this,
you want to mix things up a little bit,
maybe use multiple tint colors.
So let me explore what I'm talking about.
Let me explain what
I'm talking about here.
So this is our App Store interface,
the App Store app.
And as you can see here,
it has a blue tint color.
And there's a lot of elements on
screen that are given that tint color,
have it consistently.
So it's pretty easy to know
what things are tappable.
But not everything is blue.
This segment to control in the middle
of the screen here is also interactive.
But its design, its shape,
its form lets people know that
they can interact with this thing.
So there's no really
need to make it blue.
I mean, we could have made it blue.
But there wasn't a need to do that.
And by making it this medium gray color,
it helps to break up the
screen so it's less monotonous.
And some things don't even
need a different tint color.
So there's a visual indicator here,
the chevron on the right-hand
side of the developer name,
which lets people know that they can
tap this whole line of text and get
more information about the developer.
So, again, multiple tint colors,
other visual indicators are really
important to help break up the interface.
Now I want to dive into a very
specific thing about tint colors,
and that is when it comes
to the navigation bar.
So I've seen a lot of apps
[ Transcript missing ]
If you can, I would really recommend
avoiding doing this.
Because when you have longer
labels for titles and buttons,
they start to bleed together,
and it becomes hard to distinguish
between things that are interactive
and things that are not interactive.
It's not a very clear design,
because I can't see where one
stops and the other begins.
So it's really important to give a
distinct color to button items in
the back button in the navigation bar
to make sure that they look tappable
and visually distinct from titles.
And if you really want to have
white buttons in the navigation bar,
that's OK.
But do pick a different
color for your titles.
Also, if the title is white,
don't pick a light blue color or
something that makes the buttons
look like they're disabled.
This is a big issue,
and I've seen it so many times.
I want to talk to everyone
about this and say,
please avoid doing something like this.
You don't want to make tappable
items look like they're disabled.
All right, next up, button borders.
The removal of button borders is probably
one of the most discussed and talked
about aspects of the design for iOS 7.
It's really noticeable, right?
Getting rid of those borders.
That's a big change.
And I'll be upfront and say that if
you get rid of borders from buttons,
it can lead to some issues.
So for example,
here's the iOS 6 version of the WWDC app,
and we see three buttons there
arrayed in a vertical stack
at the bottom of the screen.
And as this was redesigned for iOS 7,
here's how it would look if
we just stripped away those
borders and gave a tint color
to the labels of those buttons.
Now, this is okay.
It's not terrible.
It's not that great either, right?
Those button labels seem like
they're just kind of floating
there without any real structure.
They're centered on the screen,
and we can all see that.
But it just looks loose
and a little bit sloppy.
So my approach to fixing that
problem was just to put everything
in the main view into a table.
That left aligns the button labels and
puts table row separators between them,
which gives them some separation and
gives them much-needed structure.
And one nice side benefit of
doing that is the hit area,
the tap target area for those buttons
now extends to the full screen.
So it's not like you're going to be able
to see the buttons in the main view.
It's like you're going to be able
And so that's a big change.
So there's actually more space
to tap on those controls.
But a more difficult problem is
when you have buttons that are
side by side with each other.
If we remove these borders,
it starts to kind of bleed
together a little bit.
And it's especially bad if
we use larger type because we
want it to be more legible.
Or we allow these to be -- the size
of these to be changed with the text
size -- the text scaling feature.
And it's really bad if,
like in this situation,
the button labels are multiple words.
And so there's spaces that are dividing
the words within an individual label.
As you can see here,
it's all just bleeding together
in one nonsensical sentence.
So one solution to this
is pretty straightforward,
right?
Relay out the ZIP.
Create more space between the controls.
And that can work if you
have the space to do it.
Or you can try to figure out if you can
have shorter and more succinct labels.
I know I'm talking to
a German audience here,
so this is a bit difficult.
But luckily for you,
there's other solutions.
So this is exactly the situation
that we faced with the login
screen for the WWDC app.
We have register and sign in that
are at the bottom of the screen.
And if I just, in designing for iOS 7,
took away those borders,
Who thinks this looks good?
I mean,
I think this looks pretty terrible,
actually.
It's not a severe usability problem.
You can kind of see
that these are controls,
but they look small and a bit lost
down there in the middle of the screen.
So this is the design that
I actually came up with.
I used a group table view.
I used individual table rows to
present those different controls.
I moved the register button down
to the bottom of the screen so
it's out of the way of the primary
flow of entering in your ID and
your password and then signing in.
And in fact,
most people who use this app,
most of the time,
don't need to press that register button
because they are already registered
and they're just logging in again.
So this is a better design, actually.
And we have the full width of
the screen to present the title,
the label for each of those buttons.
And one nice side benefit of
that is when you begin to enter
in your ID and your password,
the keyboard comes up from the bottom
of the screen and covers the register
button because presumably you do not
need the register button anymore.
So it's a nice, elegant design.
And there's a lot of other apps that we
ship that have done something like this.
"But is it a button?" So this gets at
the heart of some of the discussion,
the debate that occurred among designers
and developers at large in the design
community in response to iOS 7.
And the criticism is that
without seeing that border,
people won't be able to connect it
to a real physical world button.
And so therefore,
they won't know that it's tappable.
usability will be diminished.
And that's an understandable criticism,
I think.
It's a legitimate one.
But I think it's a bit overblown.
So let me delve into why I'm saying that.
The first reason is that a lot of
controls that people interact with
are in a navigation bar at the very
top of the screen or in a toolbar
at the very bottom of the screen.
And the placement of those controls at
the very top and the very bottom is a
very strong cue to people using the app
that those are interactive elements.
Because people have been interacting
with mobile apps for quite a while now,
there's a really strong
set of expectations.
That things that are placed in those
areas of the screen are interactive.
So, that covers some ground.
In addition to that, and again,
I know I'm in Germany here,
but there's a lot of words in any
language which people understand
because we see them all the time.
We see them on other iOS apps.
We see them on Mac apps.
We see them on websites.
And we know when we see these
words that these are probably
things that we can interact with.
We know that because they're verbs.
We know that because they are
actions that we understand.
They're just that familiar to us.
So with text buttons,
this covers a lot of ground too,
especially if there's a special
color applied to those labels.
But there's some situations
not covered by those two cases,
the location of controls or their label.
And by the way, I talked about text,
but there's also a lot of images
that we understand to be actionable,
like plus signs and the share icon.
But that doesn't cover everything.
So here is the App Store again.
And we have prices there
listed on the right-hand side.
And as I'm sure everyone here knows,
that's the way that people download
and purchase apps on the App Store.
But without borders around those prices,
they just look like they're prices.
They just look like they're labels
that you can't interact with.
Even though they have a tint color,
there's some concern that people would
still not know to press those things.
And as we can all, I'm sure, agree here,
it's really important that people
who are using the App Store know
how to download and purchase apps.
So the App Store decided that
it was critical that they put
a border around those buttons.
So we ourselves, in apps we've made,
have made this decision to do that
in situations where it was deemed
important for the usability of the app.
And if you're in the same situation,
where you determine that it's necessary
to draw a border around a button to make
sure that people know it's interactive,
then I suggest that you do
something similar to this.
Just draw a one-point outline,
one-point stroke around the border,
or just fill in the button
shape with a solid color.
Both of those look really good on iOS 7.
They match the design
vernacular of the platform,
and they're effective in making sure
that people know that things are tapable.
So if we go back to the
WWDC app for a second here,
again, this is the login screen that
we were looking at before.
And I could have treated those buttons
in the same way as the App Store did.
But to be honest with you,
this is actually a better design.
Boxes, lines, and shadows.
So part of being more deferential
in an app's design is removing
the visual adornments that are
so common in pre-iOS 7 apps.
These adornments are
often really unnecessary.
They don't improve usability
or help things out very much.
But if you simply just strip
away these visual adornments,
it can sometimes leave your
app feeling unstructured.
So let me explain what I'm talking about.
This is just a fake
generic app that I made.
But you see a lot of apps that
actually have this type of interface.
So it's a long scrolling view,
and you see a bunch of photos.
And then associated with
each one of those photos,
there's a caption and a timestamp,
maybe some comments,
some controls for acting on it.
And all of that is grouped
together and clustered together
by the use of a visual device,
by a box which is being drawn around it.
In design, we would call it clustering.
And that clustering allows these things
to come together as one entity and be
separated from other unrelated items.
And this is actually really important.
Without that box,
things become really unstructured.
[ Transcript missing ]
Oh, got ahead of myself.
So the problem gets even worse if you
make the photos larger so that your
app's interface is more deferential by,
you know,
allowing the content to come more front
and center by having a larger photo,
as we do in Mail,
and as you've seen in a lot of other
apps that have shipped for iOS 7.
So one solution to this is to increase
the amount of space between each
of these elements on the screen.
And so that's a bit better,
but the obvious downside here is
that we're seeing a lot less content.
So we're sort of going
backwards in terms of deference.
We're barely seeing maybe
50% of that second photo.
So another solution is to take
some of those elements and
composite them onto the photos.
That really tightens up
the design considerably.
Now we can see a great deal of
that second photo on the screen.
But everything is
basically really legible.
Now, a lot of great apps have taken
this a step further and just
put everything onto the photo.
And of all the options
that we looked at thus far,
this is by far the most
deferential design.
Every pixel on the screen,
every bit of visual real estate
that you have is devoted to
displaying content other than,
of course, the navigation bar.
In fact, it's such a tight,
such a much more tight design that
you can begin to see a third photo
at the bottom of the screen that
we couldn't have seen before in any
of the other design alternatives.
So I encourage you to explore
this type of direction in your app
if you have a similar situation.
Okay,
and the last thing I want to talk about,
the look of iOS 7.
I need to pick up a
little bit of time here.
Is that one of the most noticeable
design changes for iOS 7 is the
use of blurring and translucency.
So we can see that here at the
control center or search results.
And I've seen a lot of designers
who've enthusiastically adopted
this design characteristic as
they've redesigned for iOS 7.
But I've also seen a lot
of apps that have done this
for aesthetic purposes only.
And that's really not the intention
of using blurring and translucency.
So to explain what I'm talking about,
here's the login panel
for the WWDC app again.
And let's say that we looked
at this design and we thought,
you know, this is really too simple.
This is really kind of bare bones,
and we wanted to just
spice it up a little bit.
So let's take a photo that we have.
There's WWDC, Moscone.
And we're going to take that photo,
we're going to put it
into the background,
and we'll blur it.
And that's going to add
some more visual interest.
And while that might look
more attractive to some,
although I don't think
it looks very good,
it's not a very good design decision.
It's just there for stylistic purposes.
It's just there for aesthetic reasons.
Blurring and translucency on iOS 7
are used with the intent of improving
usability and making the user interface
more deferential to people's content.
So let me show two good examples of that.
Let's bring up the Control Center.
When the control center comes up,
it blurs what's behind it.
This is important so you can
really see the home screen,
or whatever your previous context was,
coming through the control center.
So you feel like you haven't
left the home screen.
You've just brought the
control center up on top of it.
We haven't left the home screen.
We haven't left the calculator when
we bring up the control center.
[ Transcript missing ]
- And I'll just point out too that it
doesn't completely cover the background.
We're still seeing a sliver
of that background there.
It's dimmed, but it's in sharp focus.
And that contrast between what's
blurred and what's not blurred really
helps to sell that visual effect
of the control center being printed
onto this frosted glass material.
You need to have that contrast
for that effect to work.
So that's improving usability.
It's helping people stay oriented
in their current context.
Now let's look at how blurring
is used in the video player.
So this is how the video player would
look if the backgrounds of these
playback control bars were totally
opaque and had no translucency.
And as you can see here,
the video image looks squished.
It looks small.
It's confined.
Doesn't have enough space.
And in a video player interface,
that's the one thing that you care about.
It's the video image and, of course,
the sound.
So that's why blurring and
translucency are used here.
It allows that color and
that visual information to
come through the interface.
And it allows the interface
itself to not seem so heavy so
that it's not occluding important
information from the background.
And then blurring is critical
here because without blurring,
you wouldn't be able to see the controls
that are being presented to you.
So that's the intention around
blurring and translucency.
Other uses of blurring
and translucency really,
again, are just there for eye candy.
So again,
coming back to the login screen,
the use of blurring and translucency
does nothing here to improve
usability or make the interface
more deferential to content.
Okay.
So that's the look of iOS 7.
Now on to, I think,
what's the more interesting
part of this talk,
which is the feel of iOS 7.
Animation is a key aspect
of what defines iOS 7.
iOS 7's user interface is highly dynamic.
Animation is used to establish
and to reinforce hierarchy.
Interactions like scrolling your
messages is a playful experience,
feels physically realistic.
And interfaces like this one for the
home screen seem to have real depth.
The icons float above the wallpaper.
There's distance between
those two layers.
And two big technological
innovations have enabled this
shift towards using more animation.
Dynamics and motion effects.
Dynamics is essentially a physics-based
engine for animating different views.
It's what enabled the camera bounce
interaction on the lock screen.
With dynamics, views can respond to
gravitational forces.
They can collide with each other.
They can snap to specific
points on the screen.
They can be pushed by external forces.
Objects, views,
can have... You can control
properties like friction,
density, elasticity,
and other properties.
And motion effects is what
enables that home screen parallax
effect and the realistic movement
of alerts and Safari tabs in a
convincing three-dimensional space.
And a big reason for this is
to make iOS feel more lifelike,
to feel more realistic.
Now, realism previously used to be
conveyed through visual effects,
like highlights and shadows, textures,
reflections.
But that approach to establishing
realism has its limits.
[ Transcript missing ]
Realism in iOS 7 is conveyed
through kinetic realism.
iOS 7 feels more lifelike
because of the way things move
in response to your touch,
in response to how you hold the device.
Now, how things feel is
tremendously important.
Let's put aside software interface
design for a second and just talk
about our experience with the
physical world and physical products.
Let's take an iPad, for example.
What do you know about an iPad?
You learn a few things
based on how it looks.
You can tell what its color is.
You can maybe tell something about its
material properties and how big it is.
But you learn much more when
you hold an iPad in your hand.
You feel its weight.
You feel that it's light.
You feel the materials as you move
your finger across the surface of it,
so you know how they're finished.
You know what it's made of.
It doesn't warp in your hand,
so you know that it's durable.
You know that it was designed
and manufactured with great
care and attention to detail.
When you press a button,
pressing a physical button
is really important.
It should be a very
satisfying experience.
It shouldn't have too much resistance,
but it shouldn't be too
easy to press either.
When you press a button,
it shouldn't shift around, feel loose.
It should just kind of
go right in and out.
And because of that,
because of that tactile experience that
you have when you interact with an iPad,
you learn about its quality.
You learn about its true nature,
its real characteristics.
Thank you.
So more than ever,
we're able to consider some of
those same factors when it comes
to software interface design.
Dynamics and motion effects have
really enabled this shift in UI design.
Conveying a sense of kinetic realism
is going to be a key differentiator
for next-generation apps.
And I encourage you to
explore these things,
to play with animation and dynamics,
motion effects.
They'll help your app to stand out.
But it's important to
use these tools wisely.
And we've all seen animations that are
completely and totally superfluous.
And animation for the sake of
animation gets old really quickly,
while animations that improve
usability will stand the test of time.
So with that in mind,
I've put together nine guidelines
to keep in mind when thinking
about the feel of iOS 7.
Now, the first one is that sometimes
animations are not helpful.
They're not appropriate.
Pressing a button can
be an example of that.
When you tap on a button,
you want it to highlight immediately
so you get instant confirmation
that you pressed the button
that you had intended to press.
If it took time for the button
to respond in its highlight,
the app would feel
sluggish and unresponsive.
You wouldn't get that
instantaneous confirmation.
Okay, so show restraint.
Next up, animation is really great
at keeping people oriented.
So in the real world,
if we're looking at this box
here on the left-hand side,
it doesn't suddenly disappear from
the left and appear over on the right.
That would be teleportation.
Teleportation's awesome,
and maybe it'll exist one day,
but it doesn't exist now.
So if things moved in that
way in the real world,
we'd be really freaked out.
It would feel very strange and unnatural.
In the real world,
we watch that box move from
one location to another.
[ Transcript missing ]
But as simple and as basic as that is,
a lot of user interfaces
don't act this way.
We'll go from one screen to the next,
and we may have certain objects
that are on all of those screens,
but they just move to different
locations on the screen or have
different size or appearance.
We don't see them move.
So let's see this principle in action.
Here's the Photos app.
And I'm going to tap on one
of these photos in a second.
And we'll watch that
transition when I do.
Press that photo and it just
scales up right in place.
Gets bigger, it centers on screen.
And that transition,
it's very quick and it's very kind of
obvious and intuitive that it does that,
but it's really important.
It improves usability because
I immediately know after tapping the
photo that the one I'm looking at is the
same one that I had intended to look at.
I don't even have to think about it,
I don't have to be conscious about
it or cognitively just check,
am I looking at the right thing?
It just happens immediately.
And when we go back to the grid view,
we see that animation is reversed.
It scales right back down.
And we see the photo that we were
looking at has now taken its place
among the other photos in the grid view.
And so we're immediately
oriented in place,
and we can move on to the next
photo and the photo after that.
And that's just as important for
the usability of the Photos app.
I was there.
So let's imagine a different
type of animated transition.
Let's say we use a slide transition.
So we don't get that immediate
and important usability benefit.
We're not really totally sure
that this is the photo that
we had intended to press.
There's no confirmation.
And again, just reversing that,
So this is a really simple but
powerful UI animation concept.
That same type of direct scale
up and scale down transition
was used all over iOS.
From the home screen to calendar
to the home screen to the desktop.
to the multitasking UI.
This is really consistent.
Works really well.
It's very effective.
Now, spatial relationships.
Because we live in a
three-dimensional world,
two-dimensional computer
interfaces can feel pretty flat.
iOS 7 uses animation to create
a sense of physical space.
The best example of this
is the multitasking UI.
Let's watch that animation occur.
What's going on here?
I wanted to understand this a bit better.
So I created this little animation.
Now we're looking at Weather App.
We're going to go into
the multitasking UI.
And as we do, we feel like we're stepping
back from the weather app,
and that's the reason why we can see some
of these other apps that are near it.
When that, through that animation,
we get a sense of a spatial
relationship with the various
apps that are currently running.
We feel a sense of
distance and proximity.
Things are closer or farther away.
Not only that,
we get a sense of a spatial
relationship between the applications,
and that they're ordered
based on recency.
And again,
having that spatial model and imparting
that spatial model on the people that
use your app is really important to do.
Animation is a powerful way
of creating these spatial
relationships for an interface,
specifically because it's a
really natural way for us to
understand what's going on,
and it makes it more memorable.
Animations are also a really fantastic
way of providing feedback to people
using your app without needing
to display status text or alerts.
So let me share a couple of
really good examples of this.
First up is the focus and exposure
indicator from the camera app.
Now let's look at what's going on here.
There's three parts of this animation.
This indicator does three
really important things.
By first appearing and then scaling down,
it's telling you it's locking on a
specific part of the image to reference
for setting the exposure and focus.
And because it's scaling down,
it feels like it's getting more precise,
which is a good thing.
We want it to be precise.
When it stops scaling, it quickly pulses,
and then it fades away.
By pulsing and fading away,
it's telling you that it's
completed the process of focusing
and setting the exposure.
and that it's ready for
you to now take a photo.
So that's a lot of information
which is communicated through a
very simple and quick animation.
Next up,
let's talk about the lock screen.
So when you enter in your passcode,
but you do so incorrectly, it animates.
sort of shakes his head no and says, "No,
that's not the right password.
I'm going to clear out the gibberish
that you just entered in here,
and I'm going to let you try
again," all without saying a word.
So as many of you know,
this animation was initially
debuted on the Mac platform,
and it was so successful there
that it was brought over to iOS.
Again, an animation which is elegant and
improves usability in this way is
going to stand the test of time.
Animation is also really great
at focusing our attention.
We are predisposed to fixate
on and track moving objects.
We can't help it, right?
It's in our nature.
That is why animation is so good
at drawing our attention to a
specific area of the screen.
Animations are a powerful way
of notifying us that something
requires our attention and telling
us where we should be looking at now.
So, for example,
the left-to-right highlight of the slide
to unlock control on the lock screen
draws your attention to the single
most important part of this interface,
which is the instructions for
how to unlock the screen and
proceed with using your phone.
Now, how you animate something
is really important when
focusing people's attention.
You may have multiple
elements moving at once,
and so to draw people's attention
to a specific part of the screen,
you should be cognizant of the fact
that elements that animate that are
bigger are going to draw your attention
more than ones that are smaller.
So I'm going to play
this animation again.
This is what happens when you tap on the
unified search field in the Safari app.
And what you'll see is
inside of the search field,
it kind of scales and
morphs a little bit.
But your attention is drawn down
to the bottom part of the screen
because the bookmarks animating
in and the keyboard sliding up,
those are much bigger animations,
much more noticeable ones.
And that's great.
For this-- situation,
because that's where you
want to be looking at next.
Let's watch that again.
Now, I mean, I don't know about you,
but my attention is
brought to the keyboard,
which totally makes sense.
That might not be the
situation in your app.
So if that's the case,
where you happen to have larger elements
that are taking people's attention
away from where they should be looking,
stagger the ending time of animations.
The last animation,
the last thing animating,
is probably going to be the one
that's attracting your attention.
Okay.
So when something animates,
when we watch something move,
not only can you track the object better,
but you get a sense of what it's made of.
And in iOS 7's built-in apps,
you'll find a lot of views and objects
seem to squish and bounce when they move.
Consider that lock screen
bounce for the camera.
When the screen drops down,
it bounces off the bottom
edge of the screen.
The lock screen appears to be made
of some kind of elastic material,
and it's colliding with the surface,
which is rigid and immovable.
It's solid.
So let's let it go.
These physical behaviors are what
makes iOS 7 feel more lifelike.
Dynamics can help you add these sorts of
subtle touches to your app's interface.
But before you start writing
a single line of code,
consider the emotional response
that you want to elicit.
Even with a simple drop animation,
a lot can be expressed
just by how objects move.
So perhaps you have an app that's
really serious and you use the same type
of animation that we just looked at.
Well,
it might not feel appropriate to have
a playful and bouncing animation.
It might feel a bit out of place
for something that's so serious.
Instead, this box should feel as
though it's heavy and dense,
rigid, so it barely bounces at all.
Maybe it shouldn't even bounce.
It just drops to the
bottom and lands there.
Let's consider a different type of app.
Maybe you're making an app for
children and you want something
which is just over the top,
fun and playful.
Those other two are kind of boring.
Maybe it shouldn't fall linearly.
It should bounce around a
little bit and slide into place.
That's much more fun.
Or maybe you're trying to convey a
sense of technical sophistication.
So when we let this go,
All right.
It's not -- we don't just
drop the box onto the ground.
We're lowering it with care.
And when it gets close to the ground,
it's pulled and snaps right into place.
It feels very precise.
Finally, maybe you're trying to go
with something that has more
of a light and ethereal feel.
So when we let this box go,
it floats down.
gets pushed up,
then finally comes to rest.
All right, these are just a few examples.
There's a lot of stuff you can do with
animation that gives a sense of what
this simple white square is made of.
Now, this is probably pretty obvious,
but it's worth pointing out anyway.
Speed is really important
when it comes to animation.
People don't want to feel like they're
waiting for an animation to complete.
We'll just let that finish there.
As a general guideline with UI animation,
you want to try to keep
animations under a second,
if possible.
It's OK to take a little bit
more time in some situations.
In fact,
this animation took about two seconds.
But that was the shortest time
it could be to complete that
animation and still feel natural.
And the box had quite
a distance to travel.
Now, also, animations can be too quick.
Overly fast animations don't give you
enough time to process what's going on.
It can feel just like a bug, basically.
So keep in mind also that
animations start to feel slower
the more times we see them.
So when you're coming to
making final decisions around
the timing of an animation,
make sure you defer that
decision as long as possible.
You really want to live with
animations for a while before
you make those final decisions.
Now, in the real world,
objects don't tend to move at
a perfectly even rate of speed.
So when things move-- and
then we call that easing,
you know, slowing up and slowing down.
So when things move without easing,
they can seem really unnatural.
It's useful to consider why something
is moving in the way that it is when
it comes to thinking about easing.
So even if something moves like this
without any ease in or ease out,
that can make sense if we imagine
that it's on this conveyor belt.
But typically that's not the case.
Usually some type of easing
is helpful and welcomed when
it comes to UI animation.
So let's look at a simple
ease out animation.
So this is going to move really
quickly right away and then slow
into place when it comes to a stop.
And it has a really different feel to it.
We understand the physical dynamics
of why it's moving and why it's
slowing down in the way that it is.
To me, it suggests that this block is
being pushed by some external force.
It's invisible,
but it's still acting on the block.
Let's consider an ease in.
That has a different feel to it.
To me, it suggests that this box is
being attracted to an invisible
magnet and stopping because
it's colliding with a wall.
Or the magnet.
And then there's a combination
of ease in and ease out.
So why is the box moving
the way that it is?
Maybe it has some wheels.
It's driving itself there and
has to speed up and slow down
when it gets to its destination.
And things start to get more
interesting when you begin to
chain these animations together.
So here's two ease outs in a row.
Pull back, go forward.
All right.
So we understand why things are
moving in the way that they're moving,
even if we can't see the forces
that are acting upon them.
Now finally, some words of advice
about motion effects.
You want to be subtle
with motion effects,
specifically the use of
motion effects for parallax.
Motion effects are what
allowed us to accomplish this
effect on the home screen,
to have that real sense of depth.
But it's really easy
to overdo this effect,
so you want to proceed with caution.
Now,
we imagine what's going on with Parallax.
We have these different layers
which have some depth between them.
And if they have too
much depth between them,
if objects are too far
or too close to us,
when we move the device around,
they're going to swing around wildly.
All right?
Swinging things moving around wildly
on the screen is typically not such
a good thing for a user interface.
So with motion effects,
a little bit of depth is
going to go a long way.
So we bring those layers
closer to each other,
and we still have a great sense of depth,
but things aren't going
off screen immediately.
You can also put some things
above the surface and below
the surface so you get a lot of
relative movement between layers,
but not in relation to the screen.
And if things are really important
and you want to make sure that
they're staying in a fixed location,
then put them on the surface and move
other elements behind them to give that
sense of depth while still maintaining
elements in the consistent location.
So Dave DeLong, the next session,
which you guys will be
about to go through,
is going to go into a lot of
detail about motion effects.
All right,
so just some quick final thoughts.
Just keep in mind that
everything I talked about,
all these guidelines,
are really a foundation for how
to approach designing for iOS 7.
What you do for your app will vary.
Each app is different,
and so what's appropriate
for each app is different.
What works well for one doesn't
work so well for the other.
And keep in mind that the best
designs are the products of tremendous
experimentation and iteration.
It takes hundreds, if not thousands,
of iterations to come up with a truly
great icon or layout or animation.
And also remember that design
is a process of discovery,
so try out a lot of different ideas
and executions of those ideas until
you find the one that's just right.
And most importantly, simplify, simplify,
simplify.
If something isn't critically
essential for your app's interface,
cut it.
That's going to give you more
time to focus on the features.
The ones that you retain,
the ones that are the most important,
so you can do the best job designing
those limited set of features
and make a truly great iOS 7 app.
Thank you very much for your time,
and I'll turn it over
to the next speaker.
Thank you.